[intro music]
Hi there. My name is Léa
and I'd like to welcome you
to this new EarSketch video
about for loops.
I'll be summarizing what
you've seen so far about loops
and then I walk you
through a workflow.
So for loops are
a perfect example
of how you can use code to make
the computer do your work.
Let's say you have a printer
and you want to make
200 copies of a document.
Well, you're not going to press
the Print button 200 times,
but you're going
to write 200 copies
into your printing window.
Well, this is a hidden for loop.
The computer
has only one instruction:
Print the document.
But it goes over
the instruction 200 times,
instead of you having to write
the instruction 200 times.
Now, that's how we can apply
this to music in EarSketch.
So let's say that you want
to add a sound
at the beginning of
every measure in your song
but you want it to play only for
the first half of the measure.
So if a measure went to 1.5,
then 2 to 2.5, et cetera
and then you want to add
a different sound
in the second
half of each measure.
So from measure 1.5 to 2,
then 2.5 to 3 et cetera.
Well, if you didn't
have for loop,
you would write two fitMedias
for every measure of your song.
And nobody got time for that!
So let's see how we can do this
with only two fitMedia
and one for loop.
So let's see how
this example works.
As usual, we initialize our code
and at the end we finish it
and we have the setTempo.
In this particular example,
we use two sound files
which are stored into
the variables drums1 and drums2.
Here is our for loop.
So for loops
are easily recognizable
because they start with “for”
and they are indented.
So indentation is the space
at the beginning of the line.
For example, this line
which starts here is indented,
which means that it's an
instruction inside the for loop.
But this line
has no indentation,
which means
it's outside of the loop.
So let's go back
to the first line here.
We have three elements
that we need to declare
in this for loop.
First, measure is
the loop counter.
It's initially set to 1.
Then this parameter means
that we want measure
to be inferior to 9.
And the third parameter
indicates that every time
we go through
one iteration of the loop,
which means
the computer completes
the indented instructions,
this variable measure
is upgraded to the next integer.
This means that measure
will first be equal to 1,
then 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
but not 9 because measure
must be strictly inferior to 9.
Note that with JavaScript,
there's elements of the for loop
are separated by semicolons,
contrary to functions
in which parameters
are separated by commas.
Now, let's see the instructions
inside the for loop.
The first fitMedia places
the sound drums1 on track 1,
from measure to measure,
plus 0.5.
And the second fitMedia
places sound drums2 on track 2,
from measure plus 0.5
to measure plus 1.
We’ll be using this table to
help see what the variables are
while the computer
goes through the loop.
So the first column here
is measure, our loop counter.
And then we have the start time
of drums1, which is measure,
and the time of drums1,
which is measure plus 0.5.
And then we have
the start time of drums2
and the end time of drums2.
I encourage you to try to fill
the table, so pause the video,
try to fill it for measure
is equal to 1, 2,
and 3 to see if you can
determine what the variables are
and then play the video
to see if you're right.
So when measure is equal to 1,
drums1 is going to start
at measure 1
and end at measure plus 0.5,
which is 1 plus 0.5,
which is 1.5.
So you can see it here
in the DAW.
drums2 is going to start at 1.5
when drums1 end,
and it’s going to end at 1 plus
1, which is 2.
You can see here in
the digital audio workstation.
Now one measure is equal to 2,
drums1 starts at measure 2
and ends at measure 2.5.
You can see it here.
And drums2 starts at measure 2.5
and stops at measure 3.
Now we can go a little faster.
For measure 3,
drums1 starts at measure 3
and ends at measure 3.5
and drums2 starts at measure 3.5
and ends at measure 4.
So we go on until measure
is equal to 8,
and then drums1 is going
to start at measure 8
and at measure 8.5,
and drums2 is going to start
at measure 8.5
and end at measure 9.
This way, we have filled
both of our tracks
with the different drum sounds.
So let's see what this sounds
like in EarSketch.
[music]
And this concludes our video
on for loops.
Thank you for watching
and see you soon!